I've made a kind of a walkthrough of how
to go about deploying a personal website
built off like just a normal static you
know templating blog templating tool and
I'd made it and figured this might be a
good opportunity for folks who are
excited about ipfs want to get involved
with it putting their own website or
creating a really easy static personal
webpage for the Deep Web and get it up
on ipfs just just see what that process
is it's like I don't know 20 slides of
like point-and-click I thought it would
be it'd be a fun place for people to see
that awesome so here is my handy dandy
little walkthrough on deploying your
personal website using forestry Hugo
fleek and ipfs the real main heavy
lifters in this are forestry in fleek
and starting with forestry this is kind
of how you go about it's a great tool
that you can use for finding an
aesthetic website templates and so it's
really really easy you have over there
click start select a starter template
you can filter by like you know which
which of the many things you want to use
there's many options I chose Hugo just
because we use Hugo a lot for various
different IP fess websites and chose one
of their kind of portfolio starter
templates the nice thing about these is
that you know it's all it's all static
and you know you can preview it you can
decide if you like it and then you can
copy it to github and so voila I got the
copy of the Hugo forestry template in
github the one like a little trick with
with Hugo and putting Hugo signs up on
ipfs is to make sure that you have
relative links and so the most important
piece here is hopping into the the
config file and making sure you add
relative URLs equal true and this will
will make your Hugo site work really
well on ipfs by default so little
one-line change to the config and this
will be ready to go you can preview it
run it locally
voila here's my local machine running
this you know kind of this is now like
three clicks I think and I have a low
goal version of the little static
website that I'm gonna want to launch on
ipfs from here now I know that I have a
static version I want to get it up on
IDF s4 that I used fleek since like is
super super easy from UX perspective and
if the aim here is to make this as
accessible to kind of people who are
getting started as possible that's a
great example
they actually literally have a guide for
using Hugo and fleek with each other
it's really useful the definitely take a
look at that because it has the one kind
of little trick you need to do in terms
of setting your build settings but for
me I'd already deployed previous sites
with leak and so I was able to just sign
in connect this to my github choose the
repo that forestry had already created
for me with with my Hugo template in it
select that and then I was kind of
pretty much ready to go the one trick I
had to do here was instead of using the
normal Hugo build command I had to
remember this blog post that I looked at
and changed my build command to a kind
of sub module update in it and this is
just making sure that that this thing
compiles and shows as a website instead
of as like the straight up files within
Hugo so that's the one special trick you
need to do to know if you go and fleek
from there was super easy just modified
this and click deploy site it took like
I think it was like a minute and a half
of deploying to take Hugo and voila I
was able to then go and verify it on on
fleek that it was running and voila Here
I am fetching this from from fleex
gateway where fleek is hosting this on
IP FS and and I'm able to fetch it from
from them and I can navigate around go
to the blog portfolio other pieces other
pages of this website now I can also go
and view it more directly on ipfs and so
here here I actually am grabbing the
ipfs URL for this instead of kind of
viewing it from from their gateway I'm
viewing it on that I okay
Way and so the I can turn on my local
companion node and configure this and
then I'm able to actually load it via my
local IP FS node and this is actually
before I had updated to ipfs 0.5 so that
changes around these URLs a little bit
to put the the queuing part at the front
and the localhost part at the back but
here I actually have like an IP FS
enabled local node and success within
like I don't know how many clicks that
was I think I should go back and count
it's like 20 or so and like a one-line
text or two lines of text entry you're
able to go from static static site
creation to running it on IP of s and so
definitely it's it I think that
officially qualifies it as at the point
that like easy enough for anyone who
wants to deploy anything on the web to
jump over and use these sorts of tools
and plug them together really easily to
get up and running and there's a lot of
other examples of people who are dumping
into the space
the the Deep log is I think another
example of how quick and easy it can be
unstoppable domains also has a kind of
template websites for getting up and
running on the d website and so lots of
different ways to do this but I thought
this was a particularly slick and an
easy to plug these two tools together
with each other